Mohit Kumar
Data Engineer
/mobile_phone+91 9953821928 mohitkumartanwar.in@gmail.com /linkedinin/mohitkumar-in
SUMMARY
Versatile Digital Engineer with 3 years of experience in development, implementation, optimization and management
of Data pipelines as well as administering Platform and leading cross-functional projects including Data Science and
Application development. Developed end to end Dynamic Reports acting as Command Center for Informatica workﬂows
leading to 60% reduction in workload on Informatica 10.2 servers. Created Command center for Google Bigquery leading
to 63% reduction in expenses for slots with further scope of improvement by optimizing usage pattern. Implemented end
to end LLM model for Classiﬁcation with Python leading to 15% increase in classiﬁcation accuracy overall over the existing
classiﬁcation mechanism. Developed Application for automating existing manual process of a Data Science model.
SKILLS
o Machine Learning/Deep Learning o Informatica/IICS o Google Cloud Platform o Python o Looker Studio
EXPERIENCE
• Data Engineer, XPO [Sep’22-Present]
– Salesforce Integration
∗ Automation of GBQ DDL generation : Reusable python script for object metadata extraction
from API, preprocessing and datatype mapping between Salesforce and GBQ , ﬁnally, GBQ
DDL generation. Used in 40+ developments across the team.
∗ Understanding of MS SQL Server: Tasked with understanding existing SQL Server mappings, optimize
and generate equivalent Informatica developments updating Salesforce based on GBQ data.
∗ SME in Salesforce integration: Guided and helped teammates through the development. Single hand-
edly solved an issue overnight saving a month’s debugging and development time.
– Samsara/Telematics Integration
∗ Integrated Samsara APIs with GBQ : Developed Python script for fetching API data and preprocess
to GBQ expected format. Further using Informatica to load the generated ﬂatﬁle to GBQ.
– ServiceNow Integration
∗ Automation of GBQ DDL generation : Reusable python script for object metadata extraction
from API, preprocessing and datatype mapping between Salesforce and GBQ , ﬁnally, GBQ
DDL generation. Used in 22 developments, for objects with upto 350+ columns, thus, saving manual
work and time.
∗ Cross team collaboration : Facilitated cross team collaboration and decision making for issues encoun-
tered in developments. Attaining valuable knowledge about ServiceNow platform in the process.
∗ IICS development: Used IICS mapping task, mappingﬂow and Taskﬂow to integrate Service
Now objects with Google Big Query. 1
– Command Center for Informatica monitoring
∗ Ability to analyse Usage statistics of tables in Google Big Query as against update frequency. Preventing
over scheduling of workﬂows, grouping workﬂows of high usage tables together, thus, saving resources and
over usage of servers. Decreased resource consumption by 60% .
∗ Monitoring and Analysis: A single report for monitoring 170,000+ monthly workﬂow runs with
option of going to weekly, daily and hourly levels.
∗ Issue Monitoring: Ability to monitor failure count, failure type, biggest contributors to workﬂow
failures. Additionally, ability to analyze workﬂows which contribute highest to the failure. Time of the
day, day of week with highest failures.
∗ Providing relevant data points to discuss with vendors regarding encountered issues.
– Command Center for Google Big Query monitoring
∗ Saved 63% in budget towards renewal of slot purchase plan, amounting to 120,000+$ savings.
∗ Ability to monitor and analyse slot consumptionin Google Bigquery throughout the day against slot
reservation. Thus, providing insights into over capacity of slots across diﬀerent times of the day, diﬀerent
days of the week.
∗ Ability to identify slot consumption across the teams , leading to eﬃcient allocation of slots across
the organization.
∗ Ability to plan slot reservation at diﬀerent times of the day, for eﬃcient consumption of slots and
minimize overcapacity.
– LLM model for Email Classiﬁcation
∗ Impact:Resulted in 15% accuracy increase, amounting to 5000+ additional monthly emails clas-
siﬁed without manual intervention.
∗ End to end project implementation: Handled project from cross team collaboration for logic generation
for dataset, creating pipelines between source system and Google Big Query, SQL for dataset generation,
preprocessing of text data, modelling of transformers for text classiﬁcation and eventually deployment of
model on Cloud Run for end user consumption.
∗ Provided additional capability of Sentiment analysisusing Google’s internal sentiment analysis model.
Provided guidance on thresholds for categorization between Positive, Neutral and Negative sentiments.
– DMS Integration for Data Science project
∗ Workﬂow: Use of Informatica and python to integrate Document Management System, Google Bigquery
and Google Cloud Storage, loading images into Cloud Storage bucket for Data Science team’s Computer
Vision project processing 8,000-10,000 records and images everyday.
∗ Cross team collaboration to gather requirements and logic for developing SQL to fetch relevant data.
– Google Cloud Platform Admin
∗ Management of permissions in Google Cloud Platform via IAM roles.
∗ Terraform for service account creation and permissions grant.
∗ Google Big Query Datalake and Data Warehouse management.
∗ Helped teams in integration of products like Alteryx with Google Big Query.
• Associate Data Engineer , XPO [Jul’21-Sep’22]
– Oracle Integration
∗ Developed and managed Data pipelines between Oracle database and Google Big Query.
– Application for automating manual work
∗ Developed a python application integrating Google Big Query and Document Management system packaged
using pyinstaller.
∗ Saving Data Science team 48+ hours monthly, facilitating transfer of work to other teams.
INERNSHIP
• Computer Vision Research Intern, Ai India [Aug’20-Nov’20]
Exploring suitability of various ML Algorithms for Land Use Land Cover (LULC) Classiﬁcation.
Queryable Automatic Retrieval of Sentinel 2 Time Series Satellite data of Copernicus.
Automated Image preprocessing including Atmospheric Correction, Downsampling & Stacking.
Implementing LightGBM, Catboost and XGBoost in LULC classiﬁcation of Multi-spectral satellite images.
EDUCATION
• M.Tech. Geoinformatics [July’19-Jun’21]
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
– CPI/%: 9.58
• B.Tech. Civil Engineering [July’13-Jun’18]
Maharishi Dayanand University, Rohtak
– CPI/%: 64
